# MSc-Pharmaceutical-Modelling-Thesis
VigiBase is the unique World Health Organization (WHO) global database of individual case safety reports (ICSRs) maintained by Uppsala Monitoring Centre (UMC). It consists of more than 20 million ICSRs submitted, since 1968, by more than 130 member countries of the WHO Programme for International Drug Monitoring (PIDM). Its aim is to ensure that previously unknown safety signals are identified early, information is shared, and necessary action taken.WHODrug dictionary is used by the UMC to compile information on pharmaceutical products and the active substances they contain. Nowadays, the Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical (ATC) Classification System is preferred, but a new system which is more flexible in categorising drugs called Standardised Drug Groupings (SDGs) is being developed as a grouping complement. In this project a retrospective disproportionality analysis to compare the detection of signals between drug- adverse drug reaction (ADR) combination, and the detection of signals employing both groupings, SDG-ADR combination and ATC-ADR combination, was performed. Already known drug-ADR signals were used as a starting point and historical VigiBase data was analysed to look backwards in time. If the detection of a signal with the ADR was sooner grouping similar drugs to the one included in the known signal was investigated. 
# Data extraction from VigiBase was executed using Microsoft Structured Query Language (SQL), and for subsequent plotting, Python 3.8.0 was employed. The obtained results suggest that both SDG-ADR combination groupings and ATC-ADR combination groupings performed better than the individual drugs alone. Consequently, grouping of drugs might be beneficial for the signal detection process in pharmacovigilance. Future work involves the applicability and suitability of this method in other signals and different types of drug groupings contained in SDGs and ATCs.
